Low level document for updating ALZ custom policies (#1154)
Azure/Enterprise-Scale: docs/wiki/update-alz-custom-policies-to-latest.md

# Introduction

This article describes how to update ALZ custom policies and policy initiatives to latest versions of ALZ custom policies. The guidance provided in this document describes manual steps for performing the update, based on a set of specific policies and initiatives, with PowerShell.

> > Note: If you are already managing Azure Policies through Infrastructure as Code (IaC), you may not want to be updating your Azure Policies outside of your pipeline. This article assume a manual approach to updating Azure landing zone (ALZ) policies.

Reviewer: change to assumes

> > Important: To carry out the instructions below, the operator will require Resource Policy Permissions at the root of the ALZ management group hierarchy.

Reviewer: is there a link to set this up if this isnt present and also is it worth stating what would happen without this permission?

Reviewer 2: Since this is low-level documentation it's safe to say that we assume that the operator would know how to configure this and is aware of the possible ramifications if it's not present.

> > Important: To carry out the instructions below, the operator will require Resource Policy Permissions at the root of the ALZ management group hierarchy.

Reviewer 2: This should actually be Resource Policy Contributor permissions

## Detect updates to policy

1. To determine if there has been updates to ALZ your first reference should be [What's New](https://github.com/Azure/Enterprise-Scale/wiki/Whats-new). Any updates to policies or other ALZ related artifacts will be reflected here upon release. An example of what that will look like can be seen [here](https://github.com/Azure/Enterprise-Scale/wiki/Whats-new#policy).

> 2. An alternatively or supplementary tool is [Azure Governance Visualizer](https://github.com/JulianHayward/Azure-MG-Sub-Governance-Reporting) which can be run in your environment and reveal information about the current state of policies and policy assignments. Part of the output of Azure Governance Visualizer is Azure Landing Zones (ALZ) Policy Version Checker which will allows you to see all **outDated** ALZ policies in your environment (see figure 1).

Reviewer 2: Agree, I would go with either "Alternatively you can run ...."  or " A supplementary tool is ..." Not both.

![AzGovViz-ALZ-Policy-Checker](media/AzGovViz-ALZ-Policy-outDated.png)
*Figure 1: Azure Governance Visualizer filtering on outDated ALZ policies*

> Note that Azure Governance Visualizer requires permissions in your tenant as described [here](https://github.com/JulianHayward/Azure-MG-Sub-Governance-Reporting#permissions-overview)

## Updating scenarios

These are the following scenarios for ALZ custom policies being updated to latest versions of the custom ALZ policies, listed in increasing order of complexity:

> 1. One or more ALZ custom policies, whether assigned or not at one or more scopes in your Azure estate, is outdated by a newer ALZ custom policy. The process for managing this is described in [Updating a one or more ALZ custom policy to newer ALZ custom policies](#updating-a-one-or-more-alz-custom-policies-to-newer-alz-custom-policy).

Reviewer 2: Also I would change "outdated by a newer ALZ custom policy" to "superseded by a newer version of that same policy"

> 2. One or more ALZ custom policies, assigned at one or more scopes in your Azure estate, is outdated by a newer ALZ custom policy with **updated parameters**. The process for managing this is described in [Updating a one or more ALZ custom policies to a newer ALZ custom policy with updated parameters](#updating-one-or-more-alz-custom-policies-to-newer-alz-custom-policy-with-updated-parameters)

Reviewer 2: 2. One or more ALZ custom policies, assigned at one or more scopes in your Azure estate, is superseded by a newer version of that same ALZ custom policy with **updated parameters**. The process for managing this is described in [Updating a one or more ALZ custom policies to a newer ALZ custom policy with updated parameters](#updating-one-or-more-alz-custom-policies-to-newer-alz-custom-policy-with-updated-parameters)
```suggestion
2. One or more ALZ custom policies, assigned at one or more scopes in your Azure estate, is outdated by a newer ALZ custom policy with **updated parameters**. The process for managing this is described in [Updating a one or more ALZ custom policies to a newer ALZ custom policy with updated parameters](#updating-one-or-more-alz-custom-policies-to-newer-alz-custom-policy-with-updated-parameters)
```

> 3. One or more ALZ custom policies, assigned via ALZ custom policy initiative, are outdated by newer ALZ custom policy(s) with **updated parameters**. The process for managing this is described in [Updating ALZ custom policies in ALZ custom policy initiative to newer ALZ custom policies](need a reference)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. One or more ALZ custom policies, assigned via ALZ custom policy initiative, are superseded by newer version of those same ALZ custom policies with **updated parameters**. The process for managing this is described in [Updating ALZ custom policies in ALZ custom policy initiative to newer ALZ custom policies](need a reference)
```

### Updating a one or more ALZ custom policies to newer ALZ custom policy

For this scenario we will use the ALZ custom policy *Deploy Diagnostic Settings for WVD Host Pools to Log Analytics workspace*.

> Considering no parameters have changed, this is a simple exercise that consists of replacing the policy definition content with the latest policy definition. While it is possible to update the policy via the portal GUI, there will be a lot of copying and pasting content. To minimize errors, we will be updating this policy via a PowerShell script.

Reviewer 2: It's not actually true that updating policy via the portal GUI is a vital option, while most properties can be modified, version cannot via portal GUI at least, so this needs to be rewritten.

Before we begin, we need to identify the policy definition name and location to be used in our PowerShell script below.

- Go to [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com)
- Open Policy
- Go to Definitions and in Search, find the ALZ custom policy.

  ![alz-custom-policy-def-search](media/1.1.update-alz-custom-policy-def-search.png)

- Click on the hyperlink for the policy definition

> - Capture the policy definition name and location from `Definition ID` and `Definition location`. In this example, the `Definition ID` is `/providers/Microsoft.Management/managementGroups/MTB/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyDefinitions/Deploy-Diagnostics-WVDHostPools` with a policy definition name of **Deploy-Diagnostics-WVDHostPools** and a location of **MTB**. The policy definition name is the set of characters following the last `/`. Both the policy definition name and location will be used in the PowerShell script below.

Reviewer 2: I would suggest going with scope instead of location as that could be understood as region, causing confusion, this is repeated multiple times in the following text

Author: Sounds good and replaced _location_ with _scope_.

  ![alz-custom-policy-def-name](media/1.2.update-alz-custom-policy-def-name.png)

- To update to the latest version of the definition, we will use the policy definition templates available in https://github.com/Azure/Enterprise-Scale/tree/main/src/resources/Microsoft.Authorization/policyDefinitions as described in the following.

- Go to https://portal.azure.com
- Start an Azure Cloud Shell with PowerShell engine

> - Execute the following PowerShell script for each ALZ custom policy definition:

Reviewer: I think we need to make sure there is a link to a disclaimer here regarding support and running these scripts

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/Azure/Enterprise-Scale/blob/main/SUPPORT.md

  Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Azure/Enterprise-Scale/main/src/resources/Microsoft.Authorization/policyDefinitions/$($policyDefinitionName).json" -OutFile $policyDefinitionPath
  $policyDef = Get-Content $policyDefinitionPath | ConvertFrom-Json -Depth 100
  $policyName = $policyDef.name
  $displayName = $policyDef.properties.displayName
  $description = $policyDef.properties.description
  $mode = $policyDef.properties.mode
  $metadata = $policyDef.properties.metadata | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 100
  $parameters = $policyDef.properties.parameters | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 100
  $policyRule = $policyDef.properties.policyRule | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 100
  $policyRule = $policyRule.Replace('[[', '[')
  New-AzPolicyDefinition -Name $policyName -DisplayName $displayname -Description $description -Policy $policyRule -Mode $mode -Metadata $metadata -Parameter $parameters -ManagementGroupName $policyDefinitionLocation
  ```

> Note that if you decide on another approach from the script above, there are a number of double brackets ('[[') in the file. These need to be replaced with single brackets before the policy set definition is valid syntax.

> - To assign *Deploy Diagnostic Settings for AVD Host Pools to Log Analytics workspace* policy, search for that policy definition. Once found click the ellipsis and choose Assign

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- To assign *Deploy Diagnostic Settings for WVD Host Pools to Log Analytics workspace* policy, search for that policy definition. Once found click the ellipsis and choose Assign
```

Author: In the previous step, the PowerShell script updates the display name of the policy definition by replacing WVD with AVD. I wanted to make sure the reader saw the update in the screenshot as well.

  ![alz-custom-policy-def-search](media/2.4.update-alz-custom-policy-search.png)

> Note how the display name changed from WVD to AVD.

- Set relevant parameters which were captured earlier.

> ### Updating ALZ custom policies in ALZ custom policy initiative to newer ALZ custom policies

Reviewer 2: I'm missing the step here where newer versions of policies are implemented, could potentially be a reference to the above two sections

- Go to https://portal.azure.com
- Open Policy
- Go to Definitions and in Search find the ALZ custom policy initiative.

  ![alz-custom-initiative-def-search](media/alz-update-initiative-with-builtin-01.png)

- Click on the hyperlink for the initiative definition
- To determine where the initiative is assigned at any scope in the ALZ management group structure start by getting the initiative **Definition ID**. Record the initiative name (/providers/Microsoft.Management/managementGroups/**Contoso**/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policySetDefinitions/***Deploy-Diagnostics-LogAnalytics***) and location as it will be used in the PowerShell script below.

  ![alz-custom-initiative-def-name](media/alz-update-initiative-with-builtin-02.png)

> - Since there is no easy way to get the various scopes an initiative is assigned to, got Azure Resource Graph Explorer

Reviewer: change 'got' to 'go to'

- Once all initiative assignments are deleted, go to the Definitions pane, search for the initiative definition

> Note: It is highly recommended you update all the ALZ custom policies to the latest version before continuing. The script below has a variable, `$updateCustomALZPolicies`, to update all of the ALZ custom policy definitions if set to `$true`.

- Once found click the ellipsis and choose Delete Policy Initiative Definition

    ![alz-custom-initiative-def-search](media/alz-update-initiative-with-builtin-01.png)

> Important: Record the **Definition location** of the Policy Initiative Definition as it will be used in (`$policySetDefinitionLocation`) the script below.

- To create the new version of the initiative, while this is possible to do in the portal through the portal GUI, with the number of policies to be included it would be a huge task. Instead, we suggest the use of the templates available in https://github.com/Azure/Enterprise-Scale/tree/main/src/resources/Microsoft.Authorization/policySetDefinitions to create the new policy initiative definition and update the custom ALZ policy definitions as described in the following.

> - Go to https://portal.azure.com

Reviewer: I am wondering if we need to create these scripts in a separate location so that any changes are easy to make as separate files

          $policyRule = $policyRule.Replace('[[', '[')
          New-AzPolicyDefinition -Name $policyName -DisplayName $displayname -Description $description -Policy $policyRule -Mode $mode -Metadata $metadata -Parameter $parameters -ManagementGroupName $policyDefinitionLocation
        }
      }
    }
  # End of updating all ALZ custom policy definitions

  $policyName = $policySetDef.name
  $displayName = $policySetDef.properties.displayName
  $description = $policySetDef.properties.description
  $metadata = $policySetDef.properties.metadata | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 100
  $parameters = $policySetDef.properties.parameters | ConvertTo-Json -Depth 100
  $policyDefinitions = ConvertTo-Json -InputObject @($policySetDef.properties.policyDefinitions) -Depth 100
  $policyDefinitions = $policyDefinitions.Replace('[[', '[')
  $policyDefinitions = $policyDefinitions -replace '(\/\w+\/\w+\.\w+\/\w+\/)(\w+)(\/.+)', "`${1}$policyDefinitionLocation`${3}"
  New-AzPolicySetDefinition -Name $policyName -DisplayName $displayname -Description $description -PolicyDefinition $policyDefinitions -Metadata $metadata -Parameter $parameters -ManagementGroupName $policyDefinitionLocation
  ```

> > Note that if you decide on another approach from the script above, there are a number of double brackets ('[[') in the file. These need to be replaced with single brackets before the policy set definition is valid syntax.

Reviewer: state double _square_ brackets

Reviewer: and single _square_ brackets
